CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to drip aka CONDRIPUTING

So good to see you here, hello :wave_tone1: :wave_tone2: :wave_tone3: :wave_tone4: :wave_tone5:

## Table Of Contents

[TL;DR](#tl-dr)

[What should I know before I get started?](#what-should-i-know-before-i-get-started)

[How can I condripute?](#how-can-i-condripute)

[Thank you](#thank-you)

## TL;DR

You just want to say hello? Send us a [nice email](mailto:drip@mailbox.org?Subject=Nice%20incoming%20mail) :postbox:, ask to [join our Slack](mailto:drip@mailbox.org?Subject=Join%20Slack), toot :mammoth: [@dripapp@mastodon.social](https://mastodon.social/@dripapp) or tweet :bird: at us [@dripberlin](https://twitter.com/dripberlin).

## What should I know before I get started?

We have prepared something for **you**: check out our [README](https://gitlab.com/bloodyhealth/drip/blob/main/README.md) for more information on how to set up and install everything you'll need.
[Ping us](mailto:drip@mailbox.org) if you could need some help :helmet_with_cross: !

Let us know if you want to suggest improvements for the README and open a merge request (which is just like Github's pull request)

## How can I condripute?

### Your First Code Condripution

We are fans of labels, at least for our issues. You can find a list of `newbie` issues [here](https://gitlab.com/bloodyhealth/drip/issues?label_name%5B%5D=Newbie).
If you decide to work on an issue, please click on `Create branch` based on that issue. You can find this as a dropdown option right under `Create merge request`.
This allows us to keep track of the issues that are related to an existing branch and tells everyone "somebody is working on it".

If you want to open a merge request, yeah :tada: exciting! We are using a template for merge requests to make sure we explain what we have done and why.
Keep in mind that people who will review your merge request are more motivated to do so when the merge request is well explained and ideally not too big.

### Reporting Bugs

You found a bug :bug:? Please feel free to investigate and save logs for more specific details.

Before creating a new issue, please review the [list of existing issues](https://gitlab.com/bloodyhealth/drip/issues) to make sure the bug is unknown. You are invited to describe the bug in all its details e.g. in what context/settings has it occurred?

To send us a new issue you can also use our [gitlab email](mailto:incoming+bloodyhealth/drip@incoming.gitlab.com). It will automagically add a new issue to the list with a description text taken from the body of your email.

### Suggesting Enhancements

Do you have suggestions for enhancing the app or for cleaning up some code? Fantastic!

Before creating a new issue, please review the [list of existing issues](https://gitlab.com/bloodyhealth/drip/issues) to make sure nobody else had the same idea before you! You are then invited to open a new issue with a somewhat extensive description, you can use emojis or GIFs if it helps :)!

To send us a new issue you can also use our [gitlab email](mailto:incoming+bloodyhealth/drip@incoming.gitlab.com). It will automagically add a new issue to the list with the title taken from the subject line and the description text for the issue taken from the body of your email.

### Thank you

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/kPA88elN9kYco/giphy.gif)

Thank you for condriputing to open source, thank you for condriputing to drip!
Much love from Bloody Health :heart_exclamation:

Commit message:

suggestions to rewrite how to contribute

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to drip aka CONDRIPUTING

So good to see you here, hello :wave_tone1: :wave_tone2: :wave_tone3: :wave_tone4: :wave_tone5:

## Table Of Contents

[TL;DR](#tl-dr)

[What should I know before I get started?](#what-should-i-know-before-i-get-started)

[How can I condripute?](#how-can-i-condripute)

[Thank you](#thank-you)

## TL;DR

You just want to say hello? Send us a [nice email](mailto:drip@mailbox.org?Subject=Nice%20incoming%20mail) :postbox:, toot :mammoth: [@dripapp@mastodon.social](https://mastodon.social/@dripapp) or tweet :bird: at us [@dripberlin](https://twitter.com/dripberlin).

## What should I know before I get started?

We have prepared something for **you**: check out our [README](https://gitlab.com/bloodyhealth/drip/blob/main/README.md) for more information on how to set up and install everything you'll need.
[Ping us](mailto:drip@mailbox.org) if you could need some help :helmet_with_cross: !

Let us know if you want to suggest improvements for the README and open a merge request (which is just like Github's pull request)

## How can I condripute?

We are an open source project and we value contribution a lot but please keep some things in mind. :heart:

- the people maintaining the project are not many (atm 2) and have to do everything from answering press requests to fixing the bugs. Most of this work is done unpaid. (If you write a nice email your chances to get an answer are much higher than if you behave like a tech bro.)
- we have a plan in which direction drip should evolve. This means, even if it is not super transparent on gitlab all the time, we have a list which features to build and even more important which bugs need fixing and which dependencies need updates. Some of that will be already worked on, some things got stuck...
- drips core values are:
  🔮 open source
  🩸 feminist and gender inclusive
  🔒 secure: data entered stays with that person/on their device
  🔬 science based: we implemented the symptothermal method
  This means we will never implement anything that opposes those core values. Some examples: we will never do a cloud integration, we will never do fertility prediction with simple day calculation...
- if you really want to contribute to the project in a sustainable manner, we are happy to join the game...

### Reporting Bugs or Making Suggestions

If you found a bug or have suggestions, please :one: first review the [list of existing issues](https://gitlab.com/bloodyhealth/drip/issues) to make sure the bug/suggestion is unknown; :two: after that, take time to investigate and write a detailed issue report. Best you use our [templates for bug /chore/ feature](https://gitlab.com/bloodyhealth/drip/-/tree/ca3cf16ff78dfcd32af7437abffe96e7c3213e93/.gitlab/issue_templates) (you can choose when creating a new issue) in gitlab or send us an email to our [gitlab email](mailto:incoming+bloodyhealth/drip@incoming.gitlab.com). It will automagically add a new issue to the list with a description text taken from the body of your email. Please attach screenshots or other helpful things.

### Your First Condripution

If you want to contribute to drips code or translation, please get in touch with us. We will be able to tell you if someone is already working on something similar, your idea does (not) comply with drips core values and many more things. Of course you can always build a drip version for your private use with everything you want, but please do not expect that we review and merge code that was not discussed before.

### Thank you

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/kPA88elN9kYco/giphy.gif)

Thank you for condriputing to open source, thank you for condriputing to drip!
Much love from Bloody Health :heart_exclamation:
